# coq-community #

A project for a collaborative, community-driven effort for the long-term
maintenance and advertisement of Coq packages.

*Note this README (the manifesto) is a work in progress and is meant to be
collaboratively improved. Please contribute!*

## Who runs this organization? ##

This organization is run by volunteer Coq users. Everyone is welcome.
Please [get involved](CONTRIBUTING.md)!

## What are its goals? ##

### Providing a place to maintain packages that were left over by their author ###

*This is the main objective in the first phase of the coq-community effort.*

Abandoned packages that are raising enough interest (either because they are
libraries or plugins with many users, or because they represent interesting
mathematical proofs or nice achievements) can be taken over by coq-community.

Each project under the umbrella of coq-community has an official maintainer
but the maintenance effort is done collaboratively. Users need not be afraid
of volunteering to be the official maintainer of a coq-community project
because they can step down at anytime. Changing the maintainer of a
coq-community project can be done very easily without the hassle of moving its
location too. That's why it can also make sense for a project which is actively
maintained but not actively developed to move to coq-community.

Maintenance is allowed to go much further than just updating the package to
keep it compiling with newer Coq versions. It can also include refactorization
of the code, uniformization of the style, merging with other packages, taking
pieces out to put them in other libraries, and even removal of some parts that
are not raising sufficient interest. These changes must, nonetheless, always be
done with consideration for compatibility as soon as the package is a library
or plugin that has users.

### Collaborative writing of documentation ###

*This objective will be addressed as part of a second phase of the coq-community effort.*

Some Coq proofs present a particular pedagogical interest because their
statements are easy to understand, but they require some non-trivial
mathematical tools and their mechanization illustrates interesting proof
patterns, or demonstrate the use of specific libraries. They could be used as
the basis for tutorials which explain the tricks and interesting parts.
Gathering such packages and their documentation could give rise to a new,
interactive “book” that would target advanced Coq learners.

### Advertising interesting packages ###

*This objective will be addressed as part of a third phase of the coq-community effort.*

Not all the packages that will be taken over will be of the same initial
quality. While this should not stop packages from being taken over, and new
maintainers should strive to improve the package quality, some editorial work
will be also required to put forward the most interesting packages, be it for
their usefulness as a library or plugin, because they demonstrate interesting
proof techniques, or because they represent an important achievement.

This work will be done by an editorial board which will be constitued of
experimented users and prominent members of the Coq community. They will have
to decide what packages to put forward and on what criteria to take these
decisions.
